
Assessment Information/Brief 2025-26


Module title
Mobile Development


CRN
52789


Level
5


Assessment title
A JavaFX app using Design Patterns


Submission/Assessment Date
The submission deadline is Wednesday 28th April by no later than 16:00. Any submission received after 16:00 (even if only by a few seconds will be considered as late).



Module Leader/
Assessment set by
Dr Ian Drumm, i.drumm@salford.ac.uk


Weighting within module
This assessment is worth 100% of your overall module mark.


Assessment task details and instructions

A local primary school wishes to use computer applications to help teach very young children to learn. You are required to create a single interactive game that teaches primary school children some aspect of science in a very colourful and fun way. Coding tasks are

    • To use only Eclipse, Maven and javafx archetype as demonstrated in module.
    • Key objects to be drawn to the screen should be instances of subclasses of the following unedited GameObject class.

class GameObject {
protected Image img;
protected double x, y;
protected GraphicsContext gc;

public GameObject(GraphicsContext gc, double x, double y)
{
this.gc=gc;
this.x=x;
this.y=y;
}

public void update()
{
if(img!=null)
	gc.drawImage(img, x, y, 30, 30);
}
}

    • You are required to implement two or more design patterns presented in the module (e.g. Delegation, Factory, Command, Singleton, MVC, Builder, etc)
    • Demonstrate thoughtful ‘responsibility driven design’, for example with ‘use case’ and sequence diagrams. Provide one or more class diagrams.
    • Do not use SceneBuilder, fxml or other third-party coding tools to assist in the creation of the application. Do not use third party libraries.
    • Do not present anything that’s obviously from a textbook, a youtube tutorial or demonstrating a lack of imagination and independent coding ability. Note any coding cynically taken from or generated on the web and presented as yours will be considered as plagiarism and the maximum penalty for unfair means will be recommended.



Using Generative Artificial Intelligence (GenAI) tools
This module deals with advanced concepts that are key requirements professional computer science and software engineering. You must demonstrate engagement with the module notes and exercises. Build on workshop exercises and use the report to demonstrate your understanding of key parts of your design, code and understanding of OOP and Design Patterns. Do not use AI for code generation or the report. Generic content that may as well have been autogenerated will be regarded as wasted text.


Word count/ duration (if applicable)

The report component should have a front page with title, roll number and a list of contents, followed by no more than 6 pages.

The whole application must be demonstrated via video submission within 4 minutes.


How to submit
For coursework assessments only: students with a Reasonable Adjustment Plan (RAP) or Carer Support Plan should check your plan to see if an extension to this submission date has been agreed.

You are to submit your work electronically via the Blackboard website. Your submission should include…

    • Your Eclipse project’s complete directory zipped.

    • A report, named report_your_roll_number.doc (for example report_123456.doc) which contains a title page followed by up to 6 pages of written explanation of your software design, application of design patterns and key elements of your code. UML and other figures are recommended, though class diagrams that are auto generated by third party tools will lose marks. The title page should have exclusively your roll number (e.g. @123456), your assignment title and list of contents / subheadings.

    • A video file, named video_your_roll_number.MP4. Using a free application such as OBS Studio, ShareX, or similar screen recording tool, record your PC/Mac desktop for between 1 and 4 minutes while running your application from Eclipse. From here you can demonstrate the application’s functionality, user interface and any key aspects of code. Feel free to narrate, though this is not essential.
Failure to submit ALL of the above components will result in failure of the module.

You may also submit

    • A standalone runnable JAR file, named jar_your_roll_number.jar. See the Additional Guidance directory of this module’s blackboard page.

As the University will mark assessments anonymously where possible, include your student roll number and not your name on your assessment. Do not upload links in the submission area, as we cannot access them and therefore cannot mark your work. If you have saved your files on your University of Salford OneDrive, dragging files to the submission area may attach a link instead of the file. Always attach files using the paperclip icon.



Feedback

You can expect to receive feedback within 15 working days of submission, via blackboard.


Assessment criteria

You should look at the assessment criteria to find out what you need to do to complete this assessment. This is provided at the end of this document.


Assessed intended learning outcomes


On successful completion of this assessment, you will be able to:

1. Demonstrate a critical understanding of modern OOP
2. Ability to apply and communicate responsibly driven design
3. The practical application of Design Patterns




Employability skills developed / demonstrated
You will develop a range of employability skills sought by employers through each assessment.
Through this assessment will have an opportunity to develop and demonstrate the following employability skills:
Skill
I
U
A
D
Communication



X
Critical Thinking and Problem Solving



X
Data Literacy

X


Digital Literacy



X
Industry Awareness


X

Innovation and Creativity


X

Proactive Leadership

X


Reflection and Life-Long Learning

X


Self-management and Organisation


X

Team Working

X


I = You will have been introduced to this skill
U = You will have developed an understanding of this skill in the context of your subject
A = You will be able to apply this skill in the context of your subject
D = You will have demonstrated an enhanced understanding and application of this skill in a wider context


Support for this Assessment

You can obtain support for this assessment in the remaining weeks of timetabled workshops after the assignment has been set.

Other sources of support
Understanding your assessment brief/assessment tips for success

Develop your academic and digital skills

Assessment rules and processes

Support services

Issues affecting your assessment
If exceptional circumstances have affected your ability to complete this assessment, you can find more information about the Exceptional Circumstances Procedure (previously Personal Mitigating Circumstances) here.  Independent advice is available from the Students’ Union Advice Centre.

Academic Integrity and Academic Misconduct
You must learn and demonstrate good academic conduct (academic integrity). Good academic conduct includes the use of clear and correct referencing of source materials.
Academic integrity & referencing
Referencing

Academic misconduct is an action which may give you an unfair advantage in your academic work.  Some examples are plagiarism, asking someone else to write your assessment for you, unauthorised use of AI or taking notes into an exam. The University takes all forms of academic misconduct seriously.


In year retrieval scheme

Not applicable


Reassessment arrangements

If you fail your assessment, and are eligible for reassessment, you will be able to find the date for resubmission on your module site in Blackboard. There is no resubmission if you are on a retake attempt.

For students with accepted personal mitigating circumstances for absence/non submission, this will be your replacement assessment attempt.

The task will be the same as this assignment.

We know that having to undergo a reassessment can be challenging however support is available.  Have a look at all the sources of support outlined earlier in this brief.


Assessment Criteria


70-100%
60-70%
50-60%
40-50%
0-40%
User Experience
Worth 10/100
Outstanding user experience which fits the brief perfectly.

Makes exceptional use of the user interface, graphics and sound.

Is simple, intuitive, fun and pretty.
An enjoyable and appropriate user experience fitting the assignment brief.

Makes good use of the user interface, graphics and sound.

Is simple, intuitive, fun, pretty.
Fair, competent user experience.

Is simple, intuitive, fun, pretty.
Adequate, though limited user experience.

Working but lacking in either simplicity, ease of use, fun or attractive presentation.
Very poor user experience.

Lacking in simplicity, ease of use, fun or attractive presentation.

Not ALL the required components submitted.




Design (evident in report and coding)
Worth 30/100
Exceptionally well thought out and understood application of design patterns

Outstanding functionality.
Exceptionally elegant.
Impeccable choice of classes to encapsulate their respective data and functionality
Impeccable use of interfaces.
Exceptional design.


Evidence student has taken responsibility for own learning with application of relevant knowledge acquired beyond notes.

Appropriate and justifiable application of design patterns.

Thoughtful and elegant design as reflected in coding.

Appropriate choice of classes to encapsulate data and functionality

Appropriate use of interfaces.

Evidence student has taken responsibility for own learning with application of relevant knowledge acquired beyond notes.

Has a wide range of design patterns.
Competent application with good functionality fitting the assignment brief.

Fair, evidenced design.

Some fair application of design patterns.

Adequate, though more thought with regards design could have been shown.

Adequate, though limited functionality.

Some application of design patterns.

No real thought of design.

No working application or with limited functionality.

Project directory incomplete or un-importable.

Not fitting the brief.

Design doesn’t include the GameObject class
Coding
Worth 20/ 100

Impeccable presentation of coding with appropriate comments, naming conventions, indenting, etc.

Clearly building on notes and exercises presented throughout the module. Whilst making appropriate choices of knowledge to apply.

Exceptional creative programming with impressive functionality.

A good understanding and creative use of the JavaFX2 API beyond that presented in notes.

Thoughtful and tidy presentation of coding.

Clearly building on notes and exercises presented throughout the module. Whilst making appropriate choices of knowledge to apply.

Good creative programming with impressive functionality.

A good understanding and creative use of the JavaFX2 API.

Thoughtful and tidy presentation of coding (formatting, choice of class, method and field names, etc).

Sensible (not excessive) use of comments to explain OO programming employed.

Making good use of examples in notes.



Adequate, though could improve presentation of coding.

Using comments but could be more appropriate or consistent.




Untidy presentation of coding.

Coding difficult to read and understand.

Code doesn’t build or work well enough to meet the assignment briefing.

Application doesn’t load and work straight away when imported into assessor’s equivalent IDE.

Code doesn’t include the GameObject class.

Not from the Maven and javafx archetype demonstrated in module.

Report
Worth 40/100
An exceptionally well-presented report.

Exceptionally good understanding of topics presented in notes and exercises evident.

Exceptionally good critique and evaluation of own code.

Exceptional use of diagrams to communicate key information.

Report is very easy to read and understand for typical programmer but with an excellent use of technical and academic language

Evidence student has read beyond notes to support learning and showing an academic researcher’s level of scholarliness.

An impeccable sense of the academic as well as practical expectations of a degree level module.

A well-presented report showing evidence of the thoughtful and sensible use of object-oriented techniques and responsibility driven design.

Very good critique and evaluation of own code.

All diagrams (e.g. Class Diagram) and images are meaningful, readable and relevant. All diagrams stick to conventions and communicate key information.

Very good understanding shown of topics presented in notes and exercises evident.

Evidence student has read beyond notes to support learning.

Report is easy to read and understand but with appropriate use of technical and academic language.


Fair presentation and some presentation of design and evaluation.

Reasonably good understanding of topics presented in notes and exercises evident.

Reasonable critique and evaluation of own code and design.


Adequate Report, though too brief or too wordy with irrelevant waffle.

Report could be better presented.

Adequate, though could have more meaningful critique or evaluation.

Adequate, though a relatively poor use of diagrams that are either too crowded, unreasonably untidy, inappropriate, not sticking to conventions or too sparse to be meaningful.

Adequate, as it has no autogenerated diagrams or text that may as well be autogenerated.

Brief, irrelevant or unreadable report.

Has auto generated diagrams.

Has generic statements that may as well be autogenerated or copied from the web, and don’t pertain specifically to the student’s own design and code.

Has screen grabs of code rather than copied in well explained and selected snippets of particularly key or important coding.

Doesn’t reflect engagement with topics presented in the module.


The following is a generic guide to percentage marks with respect to level of performance.

90-100 Outstanding
80-89 Excellent
70-79 Very Good
60-69 Good
50-59 Fair
40-49 Adequate
30-39 Unsatisfactory
20-29 Poor
10-19 Very Poor
0-9 Extremely Poor



